---
title: "Computer Security as the Future of Law - Mark Miller - 1997"
description: "Mark Miller at the 3rd Extropian Conference, introduced by Max More - Computer Security as the future of law."
published: false
---

![](https://imgur.com/RTWwvKn.png)

... a polymath also create a whole lot of different areas several articles features an extra magazine even is a retro photo on the cover sheet number 10 as I decide we had an interview with mark back then you never pick up a tissue supposedly oh yes and two issues and Martin sees himself as he feel like you
need to say what his expertise is but
maybe he's an expert in just about
anything he wants to be so I discreetly
on something really the couples of two
topics a trusty perspective on computer
security the future evolved interesting
perspectives and worries and legal
thrillers may be upset with computer
scientist is muscling into that arena
and shall be very productive muscling in
as I mentioned last night of the one bad
thing about term singularity is it
causes lack of thought about about the
future have singular
we're always going to living under some
kind of legal system something that
serves the function in coordinating the
activities of our intensity of our
activities with each other something
occurs the function of a legal system
and the legal system we end up living
under will help grow of aspects of the
current world yeah the conventional view
of what aspect of the current world what
should almost exclusively think of think
about to try to understand how it will
turn it into the future legal systems is
the current system what I'm proposing in
this talk is that there are two
important aspects of the current world
both of which can be seen as building
legal systems of some sort and both of
which are going to be a major influence
in in determining what legal system we
end up living under post singularity the
other aspect is computer security
technology and as both of these move
forward they'll be moving forward
they're not only be moving forward
towards what comes to be future a lot
but the zigzag on this diagram is to say
that they'll also be influencing and
constraining each other so they want to
wonderful procuring the banks in that
motion sucker in the talking and Chris
going price be kept strictly about what
law is then um I'm going to talk about
how computer technology particular
computer security technology can to a
large extent come to provide for us
those services that we currently expect
law can provide for us that it has says
that will come to replace much of what
we will be turning through the fear
based systems for what we now think to
draft laws more how for other aspects of
current law computer technology will
enable us to evade them will make main
aspects of current law unenforceable and
forget other aspects of karlof computing
on will simply make it irrelevant what
is law well law and rules are properly
identified and to understand rules think
about you rules of the game
imagine Fischer and Spassky let's say
playing chess with each other well there
are four different games being played
simultaneously on one hand they're
playing tests with each other you know
we're positing for is a move in that
game however there are also creatures in
Civilization being paid prize money for
playing playing
coming to have chosen to play chess
rather than you something else and there
are also biological creatures emerging
from biological evolution and they're
embedded in physics no matter what they
do with the pieces not only can ten by
the rules of chess Fisher's not move
pawn to King 5s opening move but he also
can't make the move in a way that
violates conservation of momentum
however the important thing to
understand about these these levels of
games is the astonishing degree of
insulation they have come together that
if you want to understand the chess game
you can successfully ignore the other
three levels and still understand the
chess game as a framework the rules in
which diverse interests interact with
each other and by the interaction of
diverse interests within that framework
produce emergent effects so one of the
most important concepts in computer
science that we can bring to understand
this layering the notion of a virtual
machine on the magnet on the Macintosh
PC are two different instruction sets
and operating systems and each of those
is a universe with a laws of physics if
you will for the creatures and software
programs that exist at the end those
operating systems now one of the things
that you do this is the factoring
universe enough universality is about is
that there is a program that runs on Mac
and Hospital soft pieces what that
program is that program itself runs
within the universe described by the
Macintosh water physics has to play by
the Macintosh rules however what that
program does is it instantiate the PC
rules it creates a universal in those
rules such that within that universe PC
programs can run and see the rules of
the
you say so on another important issue so
one thing what we understand in built
virtual machines on top of each other so
that they can be insulated an important
thing to realize is you also get multi
levels evolution that we ingest the
ideas about good chess moves evolved but
also the fact that they are playing
chess rather than some other game is due
to a well blow the separate evolution of
different games competing with each
other the mostly separate evolution so
what does this have to do with what we
normally call law law legal systems are
emergent are something that emerged
through an evolutionary competition in
the world there are emergent result and
what is it and in retrospect we can see
legal systems and having evolved to do
to do I'm going to say three things I'm
sure that they're they're worrying the
more things and one thing less are
probably equally important these great
five we've had before legal systems we
simply have the rules of biology we're
playing with each other
new rules of biology ready to sink law
where force and terror are the rules of
the game that we have interact with each
other by layering legal systems on top
of this legal systems create a virtual
machine embedded in the rules of biology
such that within the virtual machine
produced by the legal system we have a
different framework of evolution such as
markets such that within that framework
of evolution of different emergent
properties like civilization can emerge
so please us the legal system
saying especially as of the century as
having competed one with respect to what
the rules are
I shouldn't play chess or checkers base
like capitalism or communism or
socialism they're competing with each
other with respect to how bill is how
much insulation they are in fact
providing us from the underlying rules
of biology how well protected are we
from aggression by other nations and how
well protected are we progressing by
criminals and they are they are
providing us insulation from the
mechanisms they're competing to provide
insulation from mechanisms that their
own internal evolution the old problem
of who will watch the mantras the
institution which produces the laws that
enables these games like markets to be
possible are themselves corruptible by
virtue of interaction with the offenses
produced by the market so they compete
with each other to create mechanisms
like the speed founding father
separation of powers likely
accountability of democracy to try to
put some kind of brake on that potential
for corruption
with all three of these we can see the
results of what they're reaching for as
a neutral framework of rules supporting
and cooperation without owner ability I
would say this is actually a good
Restatement of the classical liberal
ideal the newt I would even add little
simple prendre controls first in
restating classic liberal ideal on
neutral means they don't take special
cases for particular parties and if they
bring with the rules as a
rules of the game which can be
understood and so the microphone ability
is the insulation from biology and we're
trying to achieve is a system in which
without owner ability you can engage in
large-scale cooperation and your eyes to
things like life civilization top turn
deciphering almost made the crucial
point which is this statement is also an
extremely good statement of what
computer security technology is a good
secure operating system there's also a
neutral framework of rules neutral
simple primary controls they can be
understood it's neutral because it does
not make special cases for particular
programs and run under the operating
system it provides lack of Ulmer
abilities to programs to each other and
then provide separate address spaces so
the programs cannot reach into each
other's address space and solve on their
bed
fire a good secure operating system is
one and with one which is naturally
immune from viruses and anybody who
thinks this is beyond what we know how
to do with computers is has been there
look yes
hi Ron
Norfolk please stand up okay um anybody
who wishes to dispute with dispute that
fact refer them first in Norman and
myself you up on netiquette a good
security good secure operating system in
fact provides a framework in which
programs can succeed in cooperating with
each other within schools without being
vulnerable to each other and this is not
only possible it's been done it's been
running commercial products that ship
it's just not part of the computer
infrastructure that we're used to this
generation the first division I talk
about is smart contracts contracts which
are embodying and running programs and
body with software in such a way that
the contract the self-enforcing by the
virtue of the way in which the program
operates when it runs and then don't
talk about what what we're building and
left community is in the idea of the
kind of the kind of thing we're building
work in communities a distributed secure
social virtual reality upon that person
a layer cake of a distributed
architecture for providing accessible
security for in the context of
supporting social interactions among
people virtual voluntary community to
the next step past just providing a new
framework of laws also providing new
frameworks within such a system for the
evolution of legal systems and then
smart property is takes a lot of these
ideas and says not only they find within
the computer system but by inventing
such computer systems within physical
objects a lot of our contractual
arrangements regarding physical objects
and come to be embodied in the behavior
of the objects themselves
so there's more contracts probably as
far as I know the first public smart
contracting system was the American
information exchange both Bill Simmons
Amex system in the entering system and
its support for mini consulting versus
online multi-user system in which people
who needed something done and people had
services offer to find each other thus
also complaints for facilitating finding
each other and then they could
contraposition
only talking on contract mechanism in
the contracting mechanism the the conv
contract was a personally machine
understood entity part of the contract
so a contract will be something like you
agree to write a document for me
explaining blah blah blah and on
delivery of the documents I agreed to
pay you 15 bucks so the fact that on
delivery of the document you can I take
you 15 bucks that was partly that was
machine understandable the content of
knocking been expecting to simply
express in English text to the tourists
were were irrevocably attached with each
other and certain steps on the
negotiation process one work where you
can make binding commitments and the
binding Ness of the commitments for
understood by the system if they need to
link me a document I have a choice of
either paying you or making a claim that
the document that you're handing me does
not satisfy the terms of the contract
Express mate in which case it gets
bumped from the machine enforcement to a
human versus where we have a dispute
about whether the text of that describes
what I was asking for the next be
providing disagree this is a wonderful
example
growls computer technology and cue a
legal system the contract with executing
within the computer system to the extent
that that was the right thing to do and
then when it hit a judgment case that
can't be solved just with an assessment
it was tough to a dispute resolution
process however it was not possible
within that system to simply not pay and
not claim and not make a specific claim
that there was a a a lack of fulfillment
of the contract you could only not pay
by making such a place so this is the
difference between this and contracting
the world's very striking in contracting
right now in the normal world there's
this astonishing thing where I can make
a contract with you and I can file it I
mean you know Fisher except Fisher
cannot open the chess game with
Constantine fought on the interest earth
just can't do it in some sense but I
can't violate the contract and still be
in the game in some sense with contracts
that that enforce my execution suddenly
that comes to not be enough on a lotta
recommend only URL on to that in the
spot is Nick Volvo's url- is that Nick
is an extraordinarily insightful and
innovative thinker about matters of
smart contracting and in other other
such matters and I strongly recommend
his website in the papers there I can't
I pipeline a continual stream of new
insights
is to produce okay yeah it's very
employee performance on and however as
many is because many of you who know me
know I don't choose my my passion don't
derive from my commercial affiliation
instead my commercial affiliations
derive from my passions so what we're
doing on what community is we're
building a social realities now let me
explain what that is the first ease of
description of a social virtual reality
was crew names part of intervention that
interns fired the first implemented
social worker reality of Lucasfilm
habitat system by kid Morningstar Randy
farmer in in these systems you have on
the screen like in a video game Ben zero
fun character so in that Alesso you'll
find Nintendo you have super we have
Super Mario on the screen
Super Mario is your presence within the
virtual world with the game of your life
universe in the world of that universe
we call that you're an avatar and as in
Mario you can move around from place to
place in that universe unlike Mario the
universe is a multi-person universe in
which if you move into a place in the
world with your avatar then lime or
anything with my avatar I see your
avatar you see my avatar
are you both seeing both on the screen
and now we can talk to each other we can
have conversations you can exchange
objects we engage in all sorts of
interactions in habitats the results of
creating this new world for social
interactions was not just the emergence
of a lot of cap is actually been broken
to the sense
of the society and the beginning of a
sense about history in the culture how'd
it happen when don't live in LaDonna -
Tiffany I did it again with habitat
Japan's budget to have an asset of Japan
and then with world away accomplice
earth right now what we're doing a lot
of communities is tripping Randy's
fourth temple fourth for assessment the
what we're doing this time though is
much grander than the previous frame on
previous three there was always an
institution which was providing reality
for serving reality and the users it
comes to the reality server in order to
interact with each other in this system
what we're doing is we're creating a set
of open standards and protocols and
software movies on for us such that
anyone can create a particular reality
piece of reality and and going on
serving a piece of reality of it as
decentralized it to left wonder if the
web is not only can anybody go and read
that anyone can just go and create a new
web site and then as you follow that
link you smoothly move from one website
to the other the system we're building
now building so the virtual reality as a
whole is a patchwork of separate virtual
realities served by separate
institutions and they do it your avatar
can smoothly move from one to the other
okay yeah not only is this a Sunday
distributed virtual reality for social
interaction is also a distributed secure
system in which many of the kinds of
interaction we have with each other are
actually
provided with this one they were
actually built out of strong computer
security technology so the computer
security model were using is speaking
capabilities I'll say more about that in
a moment going up from there what we
have is we make it the cover of the
security security of getting technology
accessible to people by using the user
interface metal for possession of the
physical object as if a holding of a
bundle of Rights so I think to have
something in my pocket
but this thing in my pocket is simply
reifying into an apparently physical
object something that actually
represents a bundle of Rights and then
when I walk up to you and I hand it to
you and then what I've done is I'm
giving you those nuts so the fact that
we have into simple physical intuitions
about handling of physical objects and
difficult possession of physical objects
makes a lot of the otherwise hard to
understand if I'm crying five
non-programmers frankly Park understand
my programmers sometimes power of
computer security technology makes that
accessible so so that's user interface
level we're building that out of this
video capabilities and the distributed
capabilities themselves are implemented
through a distributed cryptographic
protocol that that for providing the
young the guarantees of that security
mark so there's been there's a very
large
back in the 70s computer science created
much wonderful power there is a lot a
lot of great power that was created
especially in like the time sharing days
of the seventies the problem is that
through the user interface of time
command-line interfaces it was very hard
for many people to get it I mean it was
it was very syntax having analyst it was
not not well intuitive for most people
spend longhand things like Macintosh
with this lemming you know computation
for the restaurant and it took that did
not create new powers but make computers
able to do things that they haven't been
able to do before what it did is it took
the powers of working understood and
make them accessible from low life into
this is as cryptography for the
residents the computer signs of today
one of its most important areas of
innovation is cryptographic protocols as
coordinating mechanisms among diverse
interests providing all sorts of par
guarantees how do we bring out that
power to people in such a way that
people can use it intuitively without
having to think about a great well the
layered cake here is that but I think
one where I think my wallet and I handed
to max at the top layer I handed my logs
max was going on underneath is a bunch
of cryptographic protocol stuff that
happens such that an actual commercial
transaction has with with with all the
properties that we associated with that
is able to happen at a lower layer as a
result of that simple exchange of user
interface one say what's something
the differences between computer
security paradigms parallel to a
significant sense for surprising extent
differences between political
philosophies the main user security card
of an admin role right now represented
by what everybody thinks somehow to be
the representative of the secure system
which is Unix they probably need to be
the representative because they're
actually stuck with Macs and PCs but
UNIX is essentially the general form of
a security paradigm called access
control lists and access control lists
are and get it derives or of locomotives
which was the canonical access control
system the access control lists
embodying the idea that what rights you
have depends on what kind of person that
depends first of all on who you are that
identity that rights are given to
identities and then rights are given to
groups
so what your group is like what status
you have determines what right you so
this is like under feudalism where for
many of the rights that you have the
rights associated with whether you were
a server award or whatever and when your
rights change they changed in a large
bundle through a major ritual of
emancipation rain security which is also
public body moments is no longer a
dominant paradigm the world's dominant
paradigm and thinking in various making
about security in academia and it sees
the core security problem as how to
protect the system of probable users
capabilities to basic capabilities are a
well probably the most important things
I can produce in a long time of thinking
I may please come to display of thinking
about it is that the others are security
models which presumably which are
neutral on what computation is
capability is not just a security model
is a computation model it's a model of
computation represented most purely by
an actor and I'm intellect me which I
won't go into that but the basic things
are capabilities is rights our prime
brain and they're individually
transferrable and if you think back
about how we made it from feudalism to
capitalism a major aspect there with the
emergence of what we now what we would
now call modern notions of contract
modern notions of commercial law which
were the ability to reify packages of
Rights that were things other than
physical possession of physical objects
and to transfer the individual lead by
contract and the result was that you
could come to a prior rights in a
piecemeal and vibrant and fine-grained
fashion and there was much more
flexibility excessive there were many
more degrees of freedom and the kind of
cooperation that that change of roles in
in evolution about legal systems within
social worker realities what I call
voluntary virtual communities and what
so I mentioned that there are different
institutions serving different places in
reality these different institutions one
of the
they can compete with each other one is
what are the rules that apply to you
when you are within my part of reality
so so if people create these different
parts of these different parts of
reality they can come up with their own
notion of what are good rules or social
system and create for the realities of
buying those rules and then those then
decorative part of how you present
reality compete with each other so those
two scenarios and I'm talking about what
is preserves and the other one is
chopping people's heads up um the
cornices would be set but completely
decentralized systems you have to start
with saying in the absence of having a
contract with labor rights what rights
do I start and so the Basel set is you
know you have to think rights to
yourself and your stuff and and you know
and a lack of ability to destructively
interfere in each other very much like
in a secure operating system and so in
the absence of a other arrangements the
part of reality has no means to enforce
all the rules in order to enforce other
rules a part of reality has to have some
Lepper
that enables it to create other than the
base rules and that lever is terms of
entry that something has to be agreed on
in order to go into that part of reality
so whose are us is now creating how for
example because this is the game and may
children be playing it missing is among
other things a gaming world that game
games and for children are certainly
part the target here it will certainly
be parents that want the assure
that a particular part of reality is
child safe so a particular vendor with a
part of reality and have a return of
entry than any avatar cost of any of the
clothing that an avatar comes in with IE
order the things that can be entered
into the rendering tree so they can read
it on the screen must not embody this
and when they employ this is very much a
judgmental thing just like the UM the
with the epidemics you interact addicts
providing from the interaction of human
judgment to the dispute resolution
process of computer mediated contracting
over here the human judgment is some
labeling organization like Cruz R Us
labeling imperious images this contains
no dolly bits or no body pixels and then
the various organizations that want to
run child safe parts of reality
insisting on those certificates among
the images in order to enter with that
costume on your episode where
interesting example is common people's
heads on um once again - cause it's a
gaming world or its I'm sorry it's among
other things a gaming world really like
today you have to say is that the
earlier habitats were more specifically
animals there might be parts of reality
than what they have rules such as over
here when you enter my castle sword
fighting is fine and if in this castle
somebody strikes a fatal blow to your
head with their sword you lose your head
and they get to keep it and they might
further say it's not just Athena give
you that it's your actual head of a
scarce object then you've lost
especially if you then have to go from
sent to me we care you are in fact
without your head and you have to go you
what we call it was actually in haven't
astok called
the head shop it or nine you had so once
again there's this issue of if the base
rules are such that my hate I own my
head nobody can take my head from it how
is it that one time in the castle the
council can take to know the rules of
the castle and decide that I've lost my
head and I am prevented to say no I
distance my item stole mine and how I
keep the capsule containing and way to
that is on entry to the castle I have to
actually the council on the term
eventually give it ownership it's my
head and then the council takes my head
and lends it back to me so the head is
so on the neck of my avatar it's no
longer owned but I'm simply I'm simply
borrowing it we did having the right to
evict me from ownership of my head and
then what so so it is doing is what
entry it is acquiring from the entrance
enough rights that it now has the means
to enforce whatever prime Liverpool it
is trying to embody and its design it's
the design effort of the greater than
that part of reality to figure out what
that is and to embody the goal as well
as far as the vegetables are concerned
the Caliph or my homes my head now they
can take it does not need to return it I
have to understand that that is going to
when I leave that's a reputation issue
now at the part of NASA and if it keeps
heads other than what looks like fly
after a blow to the head with the sword
by the players then that council will
come to have a reputation as as as being
a little bit unfair and inciting that
the szabo guy again has come up with the
notion of the claim age of smart poverty
a wonderful example is the water would
be automatically repossessed automobile
or you what a repo on its one where the
arrangement that you have with the bank
is embodied in the behavior of the
automobile and if the automobile the for
example if you if it's not getting from
you know the appropriate receipts you
know cryptographic receipts about laying
money transfer to the bank from from
commuting to the bank on the amount of
the loan payment or whatever the other
bill can tend to decide on whatever for
what on whatever criteria is according
to the court with the contract that
embodies that it has been repossessed
and once it decides that it can decide
that it no longer wishes to be operating
to be operated by you and next time you
make a cut be helpless but the slogan I
want to do so in continue this slogan um
slogan I introduced is that we're moving
from a world in which possession is 9/10
of the law into one which behavior is
not sensible um what the slug inspection
of my pencil eyes widely misunderstood
makes finally explain briefly what it
means when there is a dispute it is
frequently the case I've lived through
a very good example of this that who is
the actually even physical possession of
the object about lives which the dispute
is that fact of physical possession has
extraordinary influence in the actual
outcome of the dispute
even if abstractly the law would have it
otherwise so in this case oh you know I
might think I own it I might think I
might win a court case but I have to
take you to court beside that and at the
moment it's in your house so if it's in
your palace mine I have much more
overhead than trying to get the dispute
resolved engaging in the case that you
reaches of the water week a lot of the
behavior is the the basic condition that
needs to be overcome by resort to other
means officially stated by photography
and computer networks and the means for
electronic commerce should provide us
with the ability to engage in
transactions which don't happen any
particular place and if the transaction
didn't happen on particular place to be
very hard to claim what jurisdiction
governs them strong anonymity and
cryptographic filming should make many
transactions invisible anyway
many of our intuitions about how many of
the services getting from wall because
we'll make those some of those as
possible and some of that matches the
very bad is but nevertheless it is news
and from knowledge once public will be
much more compared revocable public than
never has been and limitations that
people try to place on the use of public
knowledge will be equal to come to the
the least enforceable of current loss
copyright is over once you shove
something this they've got the bits they
can copy them there is a lot of things
you hear about right now including by by
the some friends of mine that are
claiming to be solving this problem if
this problem is easily shown it not to
be solvable and you can't they resort to
car law enforcement to punish the
violators only works if you can figure
out the violator in if you can engage in
and profit by the copyright violation
but that means like being able to track
you down to an actual person or a
physical location Protestant we do two
things computers will make us give us
more privacy and computers will give us
uh spots appears it's more privacy than
I've ever had before because of
cryptography
suddenly for the first time individuals
will be able to to resist successfully
resist major skipping efforts by larger
national dominance that's a Scribner I
think that's a huge huge change in the
world on the other hand computer will
give us less products many places where
we're currently used to having privacy
the ease of access and public knowledge
and the ease of correlation will remove
a lot of the concurrently to think of as
promising example is that you know and
interviewed a job somewhere so your
employer unbeknownst to you some of it
does it may be unused search to scan all
the negative persons of the government
and he goes in the skin to us and they
met discussing for something to thought
of as not something that would never
intersect with your work life and now
suddenly is information available
I get employed so well computers give us
more privacy or less privacy so what
what computers will do is turn off the
contrast knob will remove the great
information if you successfully keep
priming you can add more private you've
ever had before but once there's no
longer private there's fully enough it's
fully public ignoring it from the
founding of this country through to the
day our most important legal right has
been free speech the reason it's been
the most important is one that enabled
us to argue for all the rest of them and
it has happy beautiful right because in
the process of having this this delicate
permission from our government
you can get all sorts of runways and
calipari defect has been experienced on
the countries of the century however
with the emergence of the internet this
has suddenly made transition from no
longer being something from which we
desperately need this this this
permission from our governments we
simply have it we have free speech now
and to a first approximation less things
terms very very sour nobody can take it
away from us and I expect work that that
computers as they develop and that is
unworkable in our society will take more
of the things that we currently depend
on legal systems or depending on having
this delicate permission from
governments more and also we turned them
into technological facts on which we
don't have to beg permission now
technological facts that seem is very
neutral right then why should it be the
facts that technology can provide in
this matter well they might be good or
they might be back the reason why I
think that in general we should expect
the facts produced by large-scale
networking to be good is by direct
analogy with John Stuart Mill's are
for free speech the only thing I can do
to you with the network to send you bit
I cannot engage in violence through that
work if I thank you a virus under
current law I have attacked you I'm
legally liable I think that's going to
say but I providers is still jump in and
your vulnerability to the virus is
purely a result of how you react to
those bits and the and b12 I'm going to
certain of them to make me a perfect
analogy with John Stuart Mill it's
through the interaction education of The
Scream to transmit this that entity is
receiving those bits come to not be so
delicately vulnerable to bad debts bad
speech for making a bunch of kind of
long run enforcement and they means we
should spread
you shouldn't we should how close all
the books which are the form of having
once main laws our enforcement houses
phone books is create in fact a terrible
danger we are creating a terrible danger
that may never harm well done personal
because unenforceable laws on the books
are a temptation to corruption never
legislative if you can innovate never
solve with the wall but can be solved
with technology the example there's a
cell phone privacy there's a problem
right now which is that cell phones are
your voices transmitted and clear of any
can eavesdrop so what they did was they
conjure log it all over laws these Rob
great the problem solved now they'll be
these drops on cell phone my
conversations are private everyone
if instead we have not had that law then
the demand for cryptographic protections
wouldn't have happened sooner the
cryptographic protection would happen
sooner and with cryptography the
statement I just made would not be
stupid why am I giving this whole
problem and I seem to have it into law
well I don't have it in for a walk and
white walk we need what we could walk we
need walk in the vision in the old
classical liberal digitisation of the
founding fathers a neutral simple
framework of rules supporting
cooperation without vulnerability while
we haven't said is one thing most feared
one of their slogans was a government of
laws and not of men we no longer have
that we now have a government of men we
have large non-neutral complex law with
many special cases and with very little
insulated from corruption by the
auditors to the degree to which we can
take law and embody it in computation we
have almost perfect realization of the
phrase a government of laws and not of
men so one thing's pleased by how
computers absorb much of the function of
current law how computers to make much
of current law and impossible for it to
difficult to enforce new census reports
how computers will make much of current
while you're relevant but there is still
a remaining part of current law which is
the basic most fundamental part of our
law which is going back to insulating us
from the rules of biology insulating us
from the rules of course attempt was
against you know murder and rape and
theft etc was against physical
aggression physical violence which you
cannot do through compute
networks but we're not women is to
interacting with each other only to a
computer now remains the physical world
and as far as this talk is concerned
those who was need to stay on the books
we still need human enforce legal
systems to provide that part of law that
this argument about computers can only
absorb the rest of it however thinking
further ahead thinking post singularity
even that's art isn't necessarily
systems of talking profit something to
be imported by systems of profit primate
it must be enforced by something that
has a physical presence in the world but
high-tech robotics combined with
computer technology
I acted fields and top-ranked engines of
creation potentially can move into that
territory but that is a topic for a
different medium such as you saw last
night
[Applause]
Andre gallier are thinking about smart
contracts and I'm kind of curious how
you see as computer security starts
competing with current law how do you
start this computer security to start
replacing current law with current laws
has factory where computer security is
strong so how do you get over the hump
we're doing well enough now we won't win
in the case in which people are choosing
voluntarily what system of contractors
been dealing with each other end
voluntary choice to the large extent you
can just compete by the by making things
better computer for example dynamic
system is embedded in current law of the
saying but in signing on to annex
becoming a participant in annex you're
signing a contract that was self
pointing that set things up so the
maggots could be a framework whose
contracts were turn more binding than we
would have benefit if they just in you
know healthcare making bet in Carmel
High Greg Virg first would realize have
public comment sort of questions first I
thought nothing inconsistent between the
idea of jus expressed and appended
system polycentric law and a non state
based law firm I want to say that couple
of things one I was struck by your
description of the time
tracking process in your virtual world
as handing over a bundle of Rights one
it sounds like something I've read in
snow grass two from my study of legal
systems all printed legal systems
develop eventually something that
amounts to contract and I almost always
do it in terms of some formalizing act
in the world not versus it as a legal
framework of an expression of a bundle
of Rights roman law had four mapped
physical formalities up until recent
times we had we had sealed and whatnot
and there was a reification of the
contract much like your inning over the
wallet that was in a primitive legal
mind seen as the active contract in
itself what happened of course is
because the enforcement mechanism was
separate from the contract that had been
extracted into concepts such as media
mind intent execution etc so I thought
real interesting is it this possibility
of also return to the most primitive
concept in contract here we don't need
to be concerned with the details of
execution thought that's what
interesting to see what will happen with
that
finally I'm sure you're aware this is an
example in history very similar to what
the process you're talking about of a
new legal regime developing out of the
fact that he paid something like a
computer system or a place of a dream or
an existing legal regime that was a
development of commercial law and
Admiralty law in an age of exploration
and Renaissance what happened there was
we had people doing new things in an
environment that was supposedly beyond
the reach of the existing leases
and conceptually beyond reach of the
existing wheel system which was static
properly based and satisfies g7 fitted
with in Malaysia's the legal system that
developed the Lexmark aporia and
Admiralty law system though has been
reabsorbed this legal system is
completely separate legal two different
courts different concepts different
people did it in different ways in this
entry they'll eventually find Admiralty
in the commercial law we were we've
combined with that original feudal
basically consistent
wondering whether you thought about what
happens down the road when that law and
habit has to still deal with the
physical reality the best of that part
comes to terms with it bumps up against
the legal regime that you may well on
reabsorb would continue to be a separate
regime they exist side by side and one
can one contain the other I guess it's
not question I think you're asking very
good questions and I think that they
don't have short answers but it could
certainly tell that I very much like
property barbata okay maybe maybe you
and I Nick you get together see if
there's a lot of ground there like this
because this concept of levels and
emulation
I think of interest in historical
context might come to a we area camera
so the detector Thanks finish with Robin
okay yeah I like to be thinking in terms
of the threshold in privacy but I want
to focus a little more in that finite
range and see where it really lies in
totalitarian regimes you have the
concept of your your friends reading on
you people down the hall and that sort
of thing if you're in the insulated room
by yourself talking to the computer who
here is talking something maybe you've
got copyright need to have free speech
if you watch TV with friends if you like
to tell other people about webpages
which side the line are you on
I think that's yeah it'd be the
threshold it isn't quite as sharp as I
was going in there it's not a lot of
complete step function there is that
grave right there in the middle between
both fully drives and fully public what
that gray is is that if I told you
something and I asked you not to tell
somebody else you can still tell
somebody else the information can still
become public I can't stop you I might
not even find out about any no it's way
too like I might not even find that
belief but if you're my friend you may
choose not to reveal the information
further so the fact that those choices
are male are certainly both possible it
won't happen means that information can
be shared without becoming public it's
just that once you the farther it
spreads the more people the more
vulnerable it is to simply become
empowered how does that answer the
essence of your argument
productive imagine people really want to
keep copyrights so they have an
execution penalty for kick for anybody
who's o'clock doing copyright and a
million dollar bounty for anybody
attention to that pathway of copyright
okay I think I think that it's a very
different kind of grade in life it's
right there in the middle turn that one
on yes I think that by as you say I'm
increasing the penalties for men dysley
that current law can hold on to
enforcement for a good long time by such
increased penalty but it does so at a
much greater cost to itself the
possibility that law would have hold on
at those costs reduces as you push so
the impossibility for something was is
overstated it's simply that
impracticality and walk giving up to
becoming a non-issue insufficient thank
you very much
I should know that explained a suspicion
being here which I believe they deducted
mechanics we understand 11th that I
relive he was clearly experienced at a
biggie on the same topics and went for
me defense systems of enforcement of
rules you might not very interesting as
a discussion of the rainiest until we
had data including business HR the
interview 